
AIE Assessment #3
2D Retro Shooter - Post Mortem
Kevin Hunter


Scope
-----
Learning from my ambitious game ideas for the first two assessments, I broke this project down into multiple
phases.  That way I could work on smaller milestones, rather than the grand vision.

Phase 1 - Get the player ship moving and the background doing parallax scrolling in response to the ship 
movement.  This involved two control schemes, one with simple "up, down, left, right" controls, and the
other moving in relation to the direction the ship was facing.  This phase also included player weapon
fire.

Phase 2 - Setup the players ability to shift back and forth between the light and dark worlds.  This also
included phasing light and dark world props back and forth as the player shifts.

Phase 3 - Spawn animated asteroids and setup collisions with player ship and bullets.

Phase 4 - Spawn enemy ships that responded to the player position and fired bullets at the player.

Phase 5 - Create a boss that exists in both the light and dark world.  The player would have to shift
back and forth between worlds in order to beat the boss.

Challenges
----------
The forward relative controls proved to be more challanging, due to all of the math involved.  This was 
necessary as the building block for other mechanics, such as player weapon fire, enemy ship movement, and 
enemy weapon fire.  In the end, I didn't have time to build the enemy ships, but it made for a pretty cool
control scheme for the player.

Another challenge was dealing with all of the game objects between the light and dark worlds.  Everything
needed two checks for what to draw, collisions, and how the objects were created.  It was a lot to keep 
track of, but it made for an interesting game mechanic.


What went right
---------------
The biggest accomplishment of this game is the light and dark world shift.  It caused a lot of extra work
keeping track of all of the necessary checks, but once I got the first few challenges figured out, it
became easy to replicate in other instances.  The effect that it creates, really takes the game from a 
boring asteroid type shooter, to something far more interesting.


What went wrong
---------------
Since so many things relied on if the player was in the light or dark world, that variable became a piece
of information that was required throughout almost all parts of the program.  There was a point in the 
process where I couldn't figure out how to get it to be visible to all the necessary source files.  That
caused a big delay in getting some of the drawing and collision logic in place.


Conclusion
----------
I learned a lot from this assessment, by creating such a dynamic game idea, and challenging myself to 
figure out how to get it built.  I didn't have time to impliment phases 4 and 5, but plan to work on that
in my own time.  I'm especially interested in getting the boss fight built.  All of the tools are now in
place, so it will just take time to build the rest of the game.


